---
title: Wrapping Up 2012
layout: post
---

It's been a crazy year.

I know January is a bit late for an end of the year wrap-up but the end of the year came and went so quickly.

Last year, I wrote <a href="{{ site.url }}/2011-review-a-thank-you/">an article</a> wrapping up the first year of this blog and highlighting some goals for 2012. Looking back on my goals I'm surprised both at how few I achieved as well as how much my priorities have shifted.

## Goals For 2012

My goals for this past year were to:

+ Write an e-book and give it away to my readers. Preferably something on Search Engine Optimization or Online Marketing.
+ Write guest posts for at least 5 blogs more popular than mine.
+ Make friends with other starting bloggers, it gets lonely sometimes :)
+ Write at least 100 articles. ( Twice as many as this year )
+ Start posting video screencasts as an alternative way to deliver information.

**Publish an Ebook** - This has fallen completely off my radar. I like the idea of publishing work longer than a blog post but I'm not so interested in SEO and Internet Marketing right now.

**Guest Posts** - This still interests me, but I wrote a whopping 0 guest posts last year.

**Make Friends** - This has proven quite successful! I've become involved ( now teaching ) at my local <a href="http://www.meetup.com/ann-arbor-php-mysql/">PHP Meetup Group</a>.

**Write 100 Posts** - I didn't even make sixty. Still, more than last year...

**Start with Screencasts** - Still on the to-do list.

Pretty depressing at first glance, but I've accomplished quite a bit in other areas.

## Accomplishments In 2012

All in all this has been a pretty incredible year. In January I started a paid internship with a <a href="http://wojodesign.com/">great web design firm</a> which helped push my skills to the next level. Working for Wojo Design really helped my figure out what I want to do for my career ( despite it being different from what I was doing for them ).

### PHP

I really thought that front-end design and WordPress were the tools for me. Then, this year, I started to develop PHP applications pretty heavily and fell in love. Back-end development has become my obsession. I've built Social Networks, Photo Sharing Applications, Blog's, Content Management Systems and I'm just getting started!

### New Technologies

I recently migrated both my <a href="http://www.jonkuperman.com/">personal blog</a> as well as my company blog from WordPress to <a href="{{ site.url }}/getting-started-with-jekyll/">Jekyll</a>. It's been a really fun project and the results are amazing!

### PHP Meetup Group

Our local <a href="http://www.meetup.com/ann-arbor-php-mysql/">PHP Meetup Group</a> has gained a lot of traction this year. It has become one of the things I most look forward to and I hope it keeps going at its current pace.

### A Job

In a strange twist of fate, I landed ( my first ) full-time job at the end of this year. I've started working for a <a href="http://www.medhub.com/">Medical Software</a> company and so far it's pretty cool.

## Goals For 2013

I'm going to try and outline a few general goals for the upcoming year. As long as I learn a lot in my field and have a ton of fun I'll be satisfied but having a written list of goals seems like the right thing to do.

+ Gain proficiency in PHP, JavaScript, Git, and CSS.
+ Write more.
+ Teach More.
+ Actually start making screencasts.

## Conclusion

Thanks to everyone who reads and leaves comments on this blog. It's really become a huge part of my life and I can't tell you how much readership and feedback means to me!

And now, the ubiquitous end of the year post is over. Thanks for bearing with me!